
# Multi-modalities in Linear Logic

We formalize in Coq a linear nested system (LNS) [1] for focused [2]
first-order linear logic [3] with subexponentials [4] where each subexpential
may have different substructural and modal behaviors. In particular, each
subexponential index may be unbounded (allowing weakening and contraction) or
linear and, in addition, it may exhibit different modal behaviors including the
axioms 4, D and T.  The axiom K is assumed for all of them.  We call this logic
MMLL (multi-modal linear logic), that extends linear logic and also
subexponential linear logic [5].  We prove a cut-elimination theorem for this
system.

Following [6], we encode the inference rules of different logics as MMLL
theories and formalize the necessary conditions for those logics to be
analytic.  We then obtain cut-elimination theorems for LNS presentations of
classical and (multi-conclusion) intuitionistic logics as well as for
multi-modal classical and substructural logics. 

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of GNU Lesser General Public License (see the COPYING file). 

## Getting Started

The project was tested in Coq 8.13.2 No extra library is needed for compilation. 

### Building 

Typing "make" should suffice to compile the project:

```
coq_makefile -f _CoqProject -o Makefile
make
```

The project documentation can be generated by

```
make html
```


## Structure of the project / proofs

We briefly describe the content (theorems and definitions) of the .v files. The
documentation of the library offers more detailed explanations. 

We use the Hybrid library [7]  to support reasoning about object logics (OLs)
expressed using higher-order abstract syntax (HOAS). Hybrid is implemented as a
two-level system and then, we have:

 - MMLL as specification logic (SL); and
 - Different OLs encoded as MMLL theories. 

For this reason, the project is divided in two main subdirectories, namely,  SL
and OL plus an additional one (Misc) for some miscellaneous definitions and
results. 


### Misc

In Hybrid.v there is an adaptation of the Hybrid library for our purposes.
There are also additional results about lists and permutations needed in the
development. The results in Permutation.v are based on the ones in
[MyPermutations.v](https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/certicoq/blob/master/libraries/MyPermutations.v). 

### SL

This directory contains the formalization of the specification logic MMLL and
the cut-elimination theorem. 

#### SL/Syntax

This file defines the syntax of MMLL and its notation.  We also define several
notions needed for the focused system (e.g., negative and positive formulas,
polarity of atoms, etc). The class `Signature` can be instantiated so to
specify the indices for the subexponentials and the axioms assumed for each of
them.


#### LL/Sequent

Definition of sequents and linear nested sequents. 

#### SL/StructuralRules

We prove that,  multiset-equivalent contexts (i.e., lists up to permutation)
prove the same theorems (exchange rule). We also prove that the classical
context admits the usual weakening and contraction rules (preserving the height
of the derivation) for unbounded subexponentials. 

#### SL/FLLTactics

Here we define several tactics useful for dealing with MMLL sequents. 

#### SL/InvNegativePhase

This file proves some invertibility lemmas for the negative (unfocus) phase. 

#### SL/InvPositivePhase

This file proves some invertibility lemmas showing that positive rules
can be switched.

#### SL/CutElimination
The proof of the cut-elimination theorem for the focused system.


## References
[1] Björn Lellmann: Linear Nested Sequents, 2-Sequents and Hypersequents. TABLEAUX 2015: 135-150

[2] _Logic Programming with Focusing Proofs in Linear Logic_ by Jean-Marc Andreoli.  J. Log. Comput. 2(3): 297-347 (1992).

[3] _Linear Logic_ by Jean-Yves Girard. Theoretical Computer Science (50), pp. 1-102 (1987)

[4] Vincent Danos, Jean-Baptiste Joinet, Harold Schellinx: The Structure of Exponentials: Uncovering the Dynamics of Linear Logic Proofs. Kurt Gödel Colloquium 1993: 159-171

[5] Björn Lellmann, Carlos Olarte, Elaine Pimentel: A uniform framework for substructural logics with modalities. LPAR 2017: 435-455

[6] _A formal framework for specifying sequent calculus proof systems_ by 	Dale Miller and Elaine Pimentel. Theor. Comput. Sci. 474: 98-116 (2013)

[7] _Hybrid - A Definitional Two-Level Approach to Reasoning with Higher-Order Abstract Syntax_ by Amy P. Felty and Alberto Momigliano. J. Autom. Reasoning 48(1): 43-105 (2012)
